## Washington Post Opinion

Original:
<https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2023/10/31/antony-blinken-biden-aid-ukraine-israel-gazans/>

# Antony Blinken: Defending Israel is essential. So is aiding civilians in Gaza.

## By Antony J. Blinken

## October 31, 2023 at 1:11 p.m. EDT

## /Antony J. Blinken is secretary of state./

Congress’s swift support will allow us to continue aiding Ukraine as it defends
its democracy, its land and its people against Russia’s war of aggression. It
will strengthen our hand in an intensifying strategic competition with China.
And it will ensure we can help Israel defend itself, while aiding Palestinian
civilians caught in a cross-fire of Hamas’s making.

Taken together, this investment will show the United States’ unwavering resolve
in standing with our allies and partners, standing up to autocrats and
terrorists, and standing for an international order that safeguards America’s
interests and values.

Some in Congress are making the case to fund only parts of the president’s
request, including proposals to cut out all humanitarian assistance to civilians
in Gaza.

That would be a grave mistake.

It will deepen the suffering of more than 2 million Palestinian civilians —
including women, children, the elderly, people with disabilities and other
vulnerable populations — who have nothing to do with Hamas’s deplorable attacks.
It will undercut Israel’s security and regional stability. And it will worsen
problems and risks that will end up costing American taxpayers many magnitudes
more over time.

From the moment Hamas slaughtered more than 1,400 people in Israel, including at
least 35 U.S. citizens, and took more than 230 hostages, President Biden has
consistently affirmed Israel’s right — indeed, its obligation — to defend itself
and prevent Hamas from carrying out such an attack ever again.

The president has made clear that the United States will ensure Israel has what
it needs to defend its people against all threats, including from Iran and its
proxy groups. The security assistance in our supplemental request will allow us
to deliver on that commitment.

At the same time, the way Israel defends itself matters.

Palestinian civilians are not to blame for Hamas’s atrocities or for the grave
humanitarian crisis in Gaza. They are its victims. As with civilians in any
conflict, the lives of Palestinian civilians must be protected.

That means the flow of food, water, medicine, fuel and other essential
humanitarian aid into Gaza must increase — immediately and significantly. It
means Palestinian civilians must be able to stay out of harm’s way. It means
every possible precaution must be taken to safeguard humanitarian sites. And it
means humanitarian pauses must be considered for these purposes.

Abiding by these standards is difficult in any conflict, much less when
confronting an enemy that cynically and monstrously uses civilians as human
shields and launches rockets from hospitals, schools and residential buildings.

Despite these challenges, preventing a humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza is vital
to Israel’s security.

Without swift and sustained humanitarian relief, the conflict is much more
likely to spread, suffering will grow, and Hamas and its sponsors will benefit
by fashioning themselves as saviors amid the very desperation they created. And
the deepening crisis will undermine the possibility of further integration
between Israel and its neighbors.

Providing immediate aid and protection for Palestinian civilians in the conflict
is also a necessary foundation for finding partners in Gaza who have a different
vision for the future than Hamas — and who are willing to help make it real. We
can’t find those partners if they are consumed by a humanitarian catastrophe and
alienated by our perceived indifference to their plight.

In sum, protecting Palestinian civilians and facilitating humanitarian
assistance are not only the right things for Israel to do — but they will also
advance its long-term security. That’s why Israel’s leaders have made clear to
President Biden and to members of Congress alike that they support the United
States’ provision of humanitarian assistance to Gaza.

Addressing the humanitarian crisis in Gaza also aligns with our nation’s most
deeply held principles, including our belief that every civilian life is equally
valuable and equally worthy of protection — no matter what his or her
nationality, ethnicity, age, gender or faith. A civilian is a civilian is a
civilian.

This is what we would expect if we were to find our own civilians — and our own
families — trapped in a conflict. We, too, would want to be able to feed our
loved ones, care for our sick, have safe water to drink and be protected from
attacks. We should demand no less for Palestinian civilians.

All are reasons that the United States has been working relentlessly with
Israel, Egypt, the United Nations and other partners to find ways to allow
sustained humanitarian assistance to flow to civilians in Gaza, while putting in
place rigorous monitoring and inspection measures to prevent the diversion of
aid to Hamas or any other terrorist group. No humanitarian assistance is going
into Gaza without first being inspected.

Ensuring the robust flow of humanitarian assistance was a key focus of my travel
in the region, and that of President Biden, who secured agreement with our
partners to establish the mechanismst hat are allowing aid to get into Gaza
again.

While America has a profound stake in addressing these crises, we cannot and
should not shoulder this burden alone. That’s why we are rallying others to step
up with us. In the case of Gaza, more than 30 governments have already committed
to join us in supporting the humanitarian response. And we will bring more on
board, leading by the power of our example.

We don’t have to choose between defending Israel and aiding Palestinian
civilians. We can and must do both. That is the only way to stand firmly by one
of our closest allies, protect innocent lives, uphold the international rules of
the road that ultimately benefit the American people, and preserve the sole
viable path to lasting peace and security for Israelis and Palestinians: two
states for two peoples.

Any member of Congress who cares about Israel’s enduring security — or
America’s, for that matter — should support both defense and humanitarian
assistance to address this conflict.
